---
template: post
title: How to Build an xDAI CCO w/ Gnosis Multisig
slug: cco-explained
draft: true
date: 2020-10-21T10:39:47.348Z
description: "Have a project, but want to have governance into all the decisions to do early raising of funds? I'll walk you through how to get a CCO up and running on xDAI."
category: UBI
tags:
  - xDAI
  - DAO
  - CCO
---

Requirements: some xDAI, some wxDAI ([how to convert DAI=>xDAI=>wxDAI]()), Metamask, a venture you want to fund, partners, investors. 

## Summon the DAO 

Summon a DAO on DAOHAus that is a 'Venture' or 'Product'. 
Follow instructions [here](https://daohaus.club/help#Summon).

## Add your members

Multisig members need to be added as members with equal shares and lootshares. As a multisig member, click 'New Proposal' and for options choose 'Member' -->  Members pledge with minimum amount of buy in (customizable on summoning, lets say 1 DAI). --> a Unsponsored Proposal in the DAO front end ==> Sponsor the member by the DAO --> Voting period (Voting on the proposal by members.) --> Grace period --> Ready for Processing--> Completed. Now you're all members of the DAO! 

## Whitelist your requested wrapped erc20 token in the DAO

Moloch only supports wrapped standard ERC20 tokens. So, you'll need wETH or DAI on summoning in order to sponsor proposals, make new proposals, etc. for interacting with the DAO. 

## How to Become a Investor-Member of the DAO

Investors click 'New Proposal' and for options choose 'Member' -->  Members pledge with minimum amount of buy in (customizable on summoning). --> a  Unsponsored Proposal in the DAO front end --> Sponsor the member by the DAO --> Voting on the proposal by members. --> voting period --> grace period --> ready for processing--> completed. You'll need to go through this process with every investor.

## Distribute your ERC20 tokens/Fund your DAO

Each Investor must submit a 'Trade'.

Click 'new proposal' --> Trade --> submit tribute in wxDAI --> in exchange for XYZ $YOURTOKEN --> unsponsored proposal --> member sponsors it --> voting period --> grace period --> ready for processing --> Completed.

## Advanced DAO Mode: xDAI DAO

To setup an xDAI DAO, follow these [instructions](https://www.maxgrok.com/posts/launch-an-xDAI-DAO). It will save you on gas, but may deter members from joining because of the technical setup required and bridges necessary to use in order to get wxDAI to use for the DAO spinning up and proposals submissions.




